#LyX 1.6.2 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 345
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass scrartcl
\use_default_options true
\language english
\inputencoding utf8
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\author "" 
\author "" 
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Section
Topology description
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Mesh
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The goal of this project was to simulate a simple mesh network.
 The assumption for all following simulations is as follows: 
\begin_inset Formula $n$
\end_inset

 Nodes are directly connected physically together and form a simple network.
 The physical connection types being simulated are:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize

\shape italic
Point-To-Point
\shape default
: This connection type was chosen because of its simplicity.
 It suited well first experiments for setting up the simulated network.
 Another consideration was the fact that when more than two nodes are connected,
 then the left-most and right-most nodes are not physically connected (see
 figure 
\begin_inset CommandInset ref
LatexCommand ref
reference "fig:Point-To-Point-connection-between"

\end_inset

) which allowed to experiment with the routing capabilities of NS-3.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize

\shape italic
Wifi Adhoc
\shape default
: This connection type was choosen for the final simulation and for the
 visioned visualization.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Float figure
wide false
sideways false
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
\align center
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
input{tikz/p2p_connection.tikz}
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout
\begin_inset Caption

\begin_layout Plain Layout
\begin_inset CommandInset label
LatexCommand label
name "fig:Point-To-Point-connection-between"

\end_inset

Point-To-Point connection between three nodes
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Protocol stack
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection
TCP/IP
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The protocol stack being used in all following simulations is standard TCP/IPv4.
 Actually it is currently the only protocol stack being supported by NS-3
 at least for the higher OSI levels.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection
Routing
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Because the current project emphasizes on the visualization of packets traveling
 through a real network, the routing of the packets needs special attention.
 In NS-3 currently two rouing models are being supported:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize

\shape italic
Global Routing
\shape default
: A static routing table being available at each node of the network.
 This table is filled by the NS-3 during the startup of the target simulation.
 Obviously this routing method is only applicable for static, non-moving
 nodes.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize

\shape italic
OLSR
\shape default

\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "rfc3626"

\end_inset

: The Optimized Link State Routing Protocol is an IP rouing protocol for
 Adhoc mobile network.
 This protocol is being used at the OLPC project and is one of currently
 available routing protocols.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
